- The mind of an attacker
or bad actor is foreign to many software developers.
We spent our lives building things
that we hope makes the world a better price.
I know that is kind of cliche,
but the reality is most of us really want to write code
that improves our business or engages our passion.
As such, we are builders and makers.
An attacker, however, has a very different mindset.
They want to tear down what you have built.
Now, their motivations can be all over the place,
and while it is important to understand these motivations,
the simple fact that they want to tear down what we build
is very hard for many developers to grasp.
So part of writing secure code
is understanding the mindset of the attacker.
The first component is looking
at why they want to break your code.
Now, the reasons can be as many as the stars in the sky,
but each attacker has a reason.
Most attacks we hear about seem to be financial in purpose,
but attacks happen for other reasons,
things like political motivations,
revenge, or building credit
with other bad actors, to name a few.
I have seen attacks happen
because people want to build
a reputation as a security tester.
While I'm not a fan of this type of extortion,
it currently is a reason why people are attacking systems.
Now, regardless of the why,
it's very beneficial to figure out
all of the possible attack reasons.
This why is critical because once you know why
attackers might disrupt your application,
you can start looking at the possible exploits
that could exist in your system.
This is really the heart of understanding the attacker.
As a developer, truly understanding an attacker is
one of the most difficult challenges in my opinion.
But once you start recognizing the mindset of an attacker,
it opens up a wealth of new ways to protect your system.
For instance, understanding motivations allows you to look
at an attack vector in your application
by thinking through the lens of the attacker.
Once you collect this information,
you can start building an attack tree.
The attack tree allows you
to build scenarios based on probable attacks.
With these scenarios, you can determine
where you need to add testing,
increase threat detection, or apply mitigating controls.
Getting into the mindset
of the attacker can be a huge undertaking.
However, it can reap significant rewards
to your organizations.